- [Kathy] No matter what stage of your career you are in,
presenting your work is an important part
of the life of any developer.
And the challenge is simply this.
For starters, communication is very hard work.
When you add to that,
that application performance itself
is an extremely nuanced, multi-faceted discipline,
which is dependent on many variables.
Those two things taken together
mean that a little focused attention
on how you're presenting your work
will yield benefits for any developer.
This lesson focuses on those formal and semiformal events,
such as iteration demos,
or maybe architectural reviews that you find yourself in
where you need to present,
summarize, and recommend solutions.
We have four principles that I'd like to talk about.
These principles are guiding lights
for my presentation work,
and I hope that they are useful for you too.
First of all, avoid very technical jargon.
Compare this sentence.
"Our API responsiveness has degraded
because the logging aspect is joined
to a high volume of HTTP response payloads."
Compare that sentence with this one.
"We can improve our API responsiveness
by reducing our logging activity."
The second sentence has less technical detail,
but it gets the point across quickly
with a much higher probability
that your audience will remain engaged
from the start at the sentence all the way to the end.
There's a time and a place for additional details
and we'll talk about that as we come up
on some other of these principles going forward.
The second principle I'd like to present
is the simple principle, use pictures and graphs
as much as possible.
This is why some of these tools
that we have looked at in the course
are so valuable because they allow you to extract
by screenshots or exported reports, pictures and graphs
that can help you in your presentations.
For example here, we can say our overnight support team
is understaffed now that our request load
has increased by 62% last year.
Okay, that's important information.
But when you pair that sentence with a picture,
suddenly your user is engaged
and what you're saying has a little more credibility,
because it's clear that you've done
your measuring and you're quantifying
of your recommendations.
The third principle I like to follow
is to first summarize what is important
and also be prepared to go deeper.
So one thing you can say,
"We can improve our API responsiveness
by reducing our logging activity."
Depending on your audience that might be enough.
However, when you come to your presentation
with additional metrics,
for instance, reports that you captured
from your metrics and monitoring tools,
then you show that you're prepared to go deeper
and you can talk about more of the details of nuances
with your audience as it becomes necessary.
And then the final principle I'd like to present
is to equip your audience to ask more questions
by explaining trade-offs.
The sentence, "Our API responsiveness has slowed
by 26% over the last six months."
This is something you can deliver to an audience
as effect that you have learned.
However, when you say something like this,
"We can solve our slower API response times
with more network throughput
or by splitting our API into smaller microservices."
When you present options like this,
then you invite questions
and you can start talking about trade-offs
and you can stepping back to some other principles.
You can present additional work that you have done
once you find that your audience is engaged
and interested in the trade-offs that they need to discuss.
So those are four of the principles
that I like to follow in my day to day work
whenever I come across a formal
or semiformal presentation that I need to give.